# dataset_mobility_networks
 
# Sao Paulo metro 2017

The Sao Paulo metro 2017 data is available at [this link](https://www.metro.sp.gov.br/pesquisa-od/). It contains the numbers of trips from traffic zones in the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo, Brazil, distinguishing different transport modes, namely on foot, by car, by bicycle, using collective transport, individual and non-motorized transport. For each transport mode, there is a weighted adjacency matrix in a xlsx file. 

We provide the networks built from this file in GraphML format, including geographical coordinates and scripts to plot them according to the networks generated in GraphML.

Data organization:
- Network all trips: In this folder you will find folders named networks, raw data and results and also two files in python which are the codes to generate the network in GraphML and plot it there. In the raw data folder are the data that will be processed to generate the respective network, this network generated in GraphML will be saved in the network folder and its plot will be saved in png in the results folder.
-  Network bike trips: In this folder you will find folders named networks, raw data and results and also two files in python which are the codes to generate the network in GraphML and plot it there. In the raw data folder are the data that will be processed to generate the respective network, this network generated in GraphML will be saved in the network folder and its plot will be saved in png in the results folder.
- Network collective transport trips: In this folder you will find folders named networks, raw data and results and also two files in python which are the codes to generate the network in GraphML and plot it there. In the raw data folder are the data that will be processed to generate the respective network, this network generated in GraphML will be saved in the network folder and its plot will be saved in png in the results folder.

- Network motorized mode trips: In this folder you will find folders named networks, raw data and results and also two files in python which are the codes to generate the network in GraphML and plot it there. In the raw data folder are the data that will be processed to generate the respective network, this network generated in GraphML will be saved in the network folder and its plot will be saved in png in the results folder.
- Network non motorized mode trips: In this folder you will find folders named networks, raw data and results and also two files in python which are the codes to generate the network in GraphML and plot it there. In the raw data folder are the data that will be processed to generate the respective network, this network generated in GraphML will be saved in the network folder and its plot will be saved in png in the results folder.
- Network single mode trips: In this folder you will find folders named networks, raw data and results and also two files in python which are the codes to generate the network in GraphML and plot it there. In the raw data folder are the data that will be processed to generate the respective network, this network generated in GraphML will be saved in the network folder and its plot will be saved in png in the results folder.
- Network walking trips: In this folder you will find folders named networks, raw data and results and also two files in python which are the codes to generate the network in GraphML and plot it there. In the raw data folder are the data that will be processed to generate the respective network, this network generated in GraphML will be saved in the network folder and its plot will be saved in png in the results folder.

Source code:
- Create network: This code was used the following libraries os, igraph, pandas and numpy. It loads the files that are in the raw data folder and performs the necessary processing in the files, such as eliminating columns and lines that will not be used. end generates the network in GraphML that is saved in the networks folder.
- Plot network: In this code, the following libraries os, igraph, pandas and numpy were used. It loads the GraphML file generated by the previous code that was saved in the networks folder, then it goes through each geographic coordinate referring to the attributes that were added in the previous code to create the layout according to the geographic position of each vertex and finally it saves the network plot in png format in the results folder.
